= yascheme

* http://github.com/thomanil/YAScheme

== DESCRIPTION:

YAScheme - Yet Another Scheme - is a simple Scheme interpreter
built to learn more about Lisp, Ruby and programming language
construction in general. The implementation targets the R5RS
standard. We'll see how far I get.

== USAGE:

Not packaged/published as a proper gem yet.
For now, run it by navigating to /bin and calling either

1) 'ruby yascheme' to start REPL or
2) 'ruby yascheme <FILEPATH>' to run scheme code from file

== FEATURES/PROBLEMS:

I'll use this readme file as my TODO list.

*DONE*

* Basic lexer, parser, interpeter, abstract syntax tree.
* Lists, numbers, strings, symbols, booleans
* Comments (;)
* Quote reader macro (')
* Eval of quotes
* Procedure evaluation
* Can run Yascheme script on specified file or start REPL
* car, cdr, cons
* Variable binding (set!, define) 
* if conditional
* Global memory/scope across multiple invocations to interpreter
* Loading library procedures from external scheme source code
* Define and call lambdas (procedures/functions)
* Global and block/local scope
* Lexical scope & closures


*TODO*

* Macros aka syntactic extensions

* Quasiquote (and backquote reader macro expansion)
* Rest of datatypes w. their core procedures: vector, character, port
* Core procedures for input, output

* Continuations
* Tail call optimization

* Impl rest of primitive procedures
* Impl library procedures/syntax in Scheme itself
* Package and publish as proper gem
* Way better error handling, validation, diagnostics


== REQUIREMENTS:

TODO

== INSTALL:

TODO

== LICENSE:

(The MIT License)

Copyright (c) 2011 YAScheme

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
'Software'), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be
included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED 'AS IS', WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY
CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,
TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE
SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
